---
title: ArcGIS Online Full-Extent Data Layer Downloads Now Available
description: ArcGIS Online Data Layer Links
authors: [ehegeman, sbrunelle]
slug: feature-announcement-ago
tags: [announcements, features]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

Since the launch of Stormwater Heatmap Version 1.0 in March 2022, our team has received incredible interest in the data provided on this website. We originally designed the tool to prioritize interacting with data through the web interface; however, we have consistently heard from users that there is a need to export the Stormwater Heatmap data layers for use within external stormwater planning systems.  

We are pleased to share that our plans for Stormwater Heatmap enhancements include meeting this need for data export within the user interface. In Stormwater Heatmap Version 2.0, we plan to build out the "Get Data" functionality and we intend to make the "data extraction page" more robust by including aggregated and time-series data in addition to the raster data that is already available. While we work on enhancing the website extraction interface, we have created a temporary solution to provide users with immediate access to these powerful data layers. We are excited to announce that...  

**We have made 19 of the Stormwater Heatmap data layers available for download at their full spatial extent and original resolution via ArcGIS Online!** The data can be viewed prior to downloading by visiting the [View Data Layers](https://www.stormwaterheatmap.org/) tab. The same information is also posted to an ArcGIS Online-hosted landing page titled [Stormwaterheatmap.org Data Layers](https://tnc.maps.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=01c5aecf684e4d739048acdcf8e898af). Detailed information regarding how the datasets were developed, Google Earth Engine code links, and visualization details can also be found in the Documentation tab > [Layer Reference](https://www.stormwaterheatmap.org/docs/category/DataLayers/) section of the website.

Each layer is available for download as a GeoTIFF file via an individual link, and the file sizes are listed alongside the layer names for reference. The projection for all files is WGS 84. Note that the resolution varies by layer and represents the finest resolution available based on the source data. Some data layers are not yet ready for download and/or will require future updates; these will be posted once they become available. 

We are excited about sharing these robust datasets with the public and look forward to hearing about your application of these data to local planning efforts! Tell us more about how you're using the Stormwater Heatmap by clicking the "Contact" drop-down (upper right-hand corner of this page), then "Share Your Story". 
