---
id: intro
title: "Introduction"
sidebar_location: 1
---
## Stormwater Heatmap
The Stormwater Heatmap is an interactive mapping tool, report generator, and data repository that quantitatively visualizes hotspots of pollution generation throughout the Puget Sound watershed.  

The mapping tool is designed to support stormwater planning at multiple scales- from large watershed to local neighborhoods.  The pollution heatmaps provide new and rigorous insight into where stormwater infrastructure investments are needed in order to buffer against adverse environmental impacts to people and nature. 

All spatial data layers, images, and reports are downloadable for use outside of the online tool, and all code is open source. 

## Background
The Stormwater Heatmap project springs forth from The Nature Conservancy’s (TNC) Cities program, which strives to bring TNC’s core mission − preserving and protecting the land and waters upon which all life depends − to urban areas.  As the leading contributor of toxic pollutants to Puget Sound’s streams, rivers, and marine waters, urban stormwater runoff is a key ecological problem generated by Washington’s urban landscapes.  Urban stormwater runoff has harmed virtually all urban and urbanizing streams and rivers, and delivered massive quantities of toxic contaminants to Puget Sound. As a result, the abundance, health, and survival of aquatic and marine species has declined. 

A recurrent question asked of stormwater managers, eco-toxicologists and ecologists alike, is how much stormwater intervention is needed, and where would you place it for efficient and effective treatment?  

This “how much and where” question serves as the foundation of the stormwater heatmap project. The project quantitatively visualizes a pollution loading threat-map for the Puget Sound watershed, using multiple data sources (i.e. land use, landcover, precipitation, hydrologic modeling, and stormwater monitoring data) to predictively map stormwater pollution loading across the landscape. 

From Olympia to Bellingham and Snoqualmie Pass to Neah Bay, the stormwater heatmap metrics can be used to help prioritize green and grey infrastructure investments in key hotspot locations across the landscape.
